Add Basics page for Agent Integrations docs (#7858)
DataDog/integrations-core: docs/developer/base/basics.md

# Basics

-----

The [AgentCheck base class](https://github.com/DataDog/integrations-core/blob/master/datadog_checks_base/datadog_checks/base/checks/base.py) contains the logic that all Checks inherit.

In addition to the integrations inheriting from AgentCheck, other classes that inherit from AgentCheck include:

- [PDHBaseCheck](https://github.com/DataDog/integrations-core/blob/master/datadog_checks_base/datadog_checks/base/checks/win/winpdh_base.py)
- [OpenMetricsBaseCheck](https://github.com/DataDog/integrations-core/blob/master/datadog_checks_base/datadog_checks/base/checks/openmetrics/base_check.py)
- [KubeLeaderElectionBaseCheck](https://github.com/DataDog/integrations-core/blob/master/datadog_checks_base/datadog_checks/base/checks/kube_leader/base_check.py)

## Getting Started

The Datadog Agent looks for `__version__` and a subclass of `AgentCheck` at the root of every Check package.

Below is an example of the `__init__.py` file for a hypothetical `Awesome` Check:

```python
from .__about__ import __version__
from .check import AwesomeCheck

__all__ = ['__version__', 'AwesomeCheck']
```

> Note that the Agent looks for `__version__` in `__init__.py`. This is the default location for all integrations, but it does not necessarily need to be put there. If no `__version__` is found, it will default to `0.0.0`.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> The version is used in the Agent's status output:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The version is used in the Agent's status output (if no `__version__` is found, it will default to `0.0.0`):
```

```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

=========
Collector
=========

  Running Checks
  ============== 

    AwesomeCheck (0.0.1)
    -------------------
      Instance ID: 1234 [OK]
      Configuration Source: file:/etc/datadog-agent/conf.d/awesomecheck.d/awesomecheck.yaml
      Total Runs: 12
      Metric Samples: Last Run: 242, Total: 2,904
      Events: Last Run: 0, Total: 0
      Service Checks: Last Run: 0, Total: 0
      Average Execution Time : 49ms
      Last Execution Date : 2020-10-26 19:09:22.000000 UTC
      Last Successful Execution Date : 2020-10-26 19:09:22.000000 UTC

...

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

For more information, see the [API documentation](api.md#datadog_checks.base.checks.base.AgentCheck.histogram).

#### Historate

Similar to the histogram metric, the historate represents statistical distribution over one time interval, although this is based on rate metrics.

For more information, see the [API documentation](api.md#datadog_checks.base.checks.base.AgentCheck.historate).

### Service Checks

Service checks are a type of monitor used to track the uptime status of the service. For more information, see the [Service checks](https://docs.datadoghq.com/developers/service_checks/) guide.

For more information, see the [API documentation](api.md#datadog_checks.base.checks.base.AgentCheck.service_check).

### Events

Events are informational messages about your system that are consumed by [the events stream](https://app.datadoghq.com/event/stream) so that you can build monitors on them.

For more information, see the [API documentation](api.md#datadog_checks.base.checks.base.AgentCheck.event).

## Namespacing

Within every integration, you can specify the value of `__NAMESPACE__`:

```python

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

from datadog_checks.base import AgentCheck

class AwesomeCheck(AgentCheck):
    __NAMESPACE__ = 'awesome'

> ...
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
...
```

```

This is an optional addition, but it makes submissions easier since it prefixes every metric with the `__NAMESPACE__` automatically. In this case it would append `awesome.` to each metric submitted to Datadog.

If you wish to ignore the namespace for any reason, you can append an optional Boolean `raw=True` to each submission:

```python

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

self.gauge('test', 1.23, tags=['foo:bar'], raw=True)

...

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

```

You submitted a gauge metric named `test` with a value of `1.23` tagged by `foo:bar` ignoring the namespace.

## Check Initializations

> In the AgentCheck class, there is a useful property called `check_initializations`, which you can use to execute functions that are called once before the first check executes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the AgentCheck class, there is a useful property called `check_initializations`, which you can use to execute functions that are called once before the first check run.

```

You can fill up `check_initializations` with instructions in the `__init__` function of an integration. For example, you could use it to parse configuration information before running a check. Listed below is an example with Airflow:

```python

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

class AirflowCheck(AgentCheck):
    def __init__(self, name, init_config, instances):
        super(AirflowCheck, self).__init__(name, init_config, instances)

        self._url = self.instance.get('url', '')
        self._tags = self.instance.get('tags', [])

        # The Agent only makes one attempt to instantiate each AgentCheck so any errors occurring
        # in `__init__` are logged just once, making it difficult to spot. Therefore,
        # potential configuration errors are emitted as part of the check run phase.
        # The configuration is only parsed once if it succeed, otherwise it's retried.
        self.check_initializations.append(self._parse_config)

...

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

# Basics

-----

> The AgentCheck base class in base.py contains the logic that all Checks inherit.

Reviewer 2: `Check` is a common noun and should be lowercase.

Author: For our dev docs we keep `Check` capitalized to help us refer to them

In addition to the integrations inheriting from AgentCheck, other classes that inherit from AgentCheck include:

- [PDHBaseCheck](https://github.com/DataDog/integrations-core/blob/master/datadog_checks_base/datadog_checks/base/checks/win/winpdh_base.py)
- [OpenMetricsBaseCheck](https://github.com/DataDog/integrations-core/blob/master/datadog_checks_base/datadog_checks/base/checks/openmetrics/base_check.py)
- [GenericPrometheusCheck](https://github.com/DataDog/integrations-core/blob/master/datadog_checks_base/datadog_checks/base/checks/prometheus/base_check.py)
- [PrometheusCheck](https://github.com/DataDog/integrations-core/blob/master/datadog_checks_base/datadog_checks/base/checks/prometheus/prometheus_base.py)
- [KubeLeaderElectionBaseCheck](https://github.com/DataDog/integrations-core/blob/master/datadog_checks_base/datadog_checks/base/checks/kube_leader/base_check.py)

## Getting Started
In each Check, Datadog looks for `__version__` and a subclass of AgentCheck at the root of every package.

> Below is an example of the `__init__.py` folder for AwesomeCheck:

Reviewer 2: I'm gonna be super annoying here, but naming something `AwesomeCheck` as an example isn't in the dispassionate tone we usually like to strike in the docs. Let's change this to `MyCheck` or something equally dry.

Reviewer: Yes, though these are dev docs and are not on the corp site, so it's okay. We also use lots of GIFs 😄

```python
# (C) Datadog, Inc. 2020-present
# All rights reserved
# Licensed under a 3-clause BSD style license (see LICENSE)
from .__about__ import __version__
from .check import AwesomeCheck

__all__ = ['__version__', 'AwesomeCheck']
```

> Note that we look for `__version__` in `__about__.py` in this case, however it does not necessarily need to be put there. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Note that Datadog looks for `__version__` in `__about__.py`. However, it does not necessarily need to be put there. 
```

Could you also just explain this a little more? Does it default to anything if it isn't there?

Author: Adding default value

This value is used in Datadog's check:

```
=========
Collector
=========

  Running Checks
  ==============

    AwesomeCheck (0.0.1)
    -------------------
      Instance ID: 1234 [OK]
      Configuration Source: file:/etc/datadog-agent/conf.d/awesomecheck.d/awesomecheck.yaml
      Total Runs: 12
      Metric Samples: Last Run: 242, Total: 2,904
      Events: Last Run: 0, Total: 0
      Service Checks: Last Run: 0, Total: 0
      Average Execution Time : 49ms
      Last Execution Date : 2020-10-26 19:09:22.000000 UTC
      Last Successful Execution Date : 2020-10-26 19:09:22.000000 UTC

...
```

## Checks
AgentCheck contains functions that you use to execute checks and submit data to Datadog.

> include link to the app for each 

Reviewer 3: ?

Author: Oops left a note for myself by accident.

### Metrics

> The list of what is collected from your system by each integration. More information on metrics can be found [here.](https://docs.datadoghq.com/developers/metrics/types/) You can find the metrics for each integration in that integrations metadata.csv file. You can also set up [custom metrics](https://docs.datadoghq.com/developers/metrics/), so if the integration doesn’t offer a metric out of the box, you can usually add it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This list enumerates what is collected from your system by each integration. For more information on metrics, see the [Metric Types documentation.](https://docs.datadoghq.com/developers/metrics/types/) You can find the metrics for each integration in that integration's `metadata.csv` file. You can also set up [custom metrics](https://docs.datadoghq.com/developers/metrics/), so if the integration doesn’t offer a metric out of the box, you can usually add it.
```

We like to have link text be descriptive, rather than `here`.

#### Gauge
The gauge metric submission type represents a snapshot of events in one time interval. This representative snapshot value is the last value submitted to the Agent during a time interval. A gauge can be used to take a measure of something reporting continuously—like the available disk space or memory used.

> More information on this can be found in the API docs [here.](https://datadoghq.dev/integrations-core/base/api/#datadog_checks.base.checks.base.AgentCheck.gauge)

Author: Hm I tried doing this, but it was having trouble finding this file locally.

#### Count

> The count metric submission type represents the total number of event occurrences in one time interval. A count can be used to track the total number of connections made to a database or the total number of requests to an endpoint. This number of events can accumulate or decrease over time—it is not monotonically increasing.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The count metric submission type represents the total number of event occurrences in one time interval. A count can be used to track the total number of connections made to a database or the total number of requests to an endpoint. This number of events can increase or decrease over time—it is not monotonically increasing.
```

> More information on this can be found in the API docs [here.](https://datadoghq.dev/integrations-core/base/api/#datadog_checks.base.checks.base.AgentCheck.count)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For more information, see the [API documentation](https://datadoghq.dev/integrations-core/base/api/#datadog_checks.base.checks.base.AgentCheck.count).
```

#### Monotonic Count

> Similar to Count, Monotonic Count represents the total number of event occurrences in one time interval, however this value can ONLY increment.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Similar to Count, Monotonic Count represents the total number of event occurrences in one time interval. However, this value can ONLY increment.
```

> More information on this can be found in the API docs [here.](https://datadoghq.dev/integrations-core/base/api/#datadog_checks.base.checks.base.AgentCheck.monotonic_count)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For more information, see the [API documentation](https://datadoghq.dev/integrations-core/base/api/#datadog_checks.base.checks.base.AgentCheck.monotonic_count).
```

#### Rate
The rate metric submission type represents the total number of event occurrences per second in one time interval. A rate can be used to track how often something is happening—like the frequency of connections made to a database or the flow of requests made to an endpoint.

> More information on this can be found in the API docs [here.](https://datadoghq.dev/integrations-core/base/api/#datadog_checks.base.checks.base.AgentCheck.rate)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For more information, see the [API documentation](https://datadoghq.dev/integrations-core/base/api/#datadog_checks.base.checks.base.AgentCheck.rate).
```

#### Histogram
The histogram metric submission type represents the statistical distribution of a set of values calculated Agent-side in one time interval. Datadog’s histogram metric type is an extension of the StatsD timing metric type: the Agent aggregates the values that are sent in a defined time interval and produces different metrics which represent the set of values.

> More information on this can be found in the API docs [here.](https://datadoghq.dev/integrations-core/base/api/#datadog_checks.base.checks.base.AgentCheck.histogram)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For more information, see the [API documentation](https://datadoghq.dev/integrations-core/base/api/#datadog_checks.base.checks.base.AgentCheck.histogram).
```

#### Historate
Similar to the histogram metric, the historate represents statistical distribution over one time interval, although this is based on rate metrics.

> More information on this can be found in the API docs [here.](https://datadoghq.dev/integrations-core/base/api/#datadog_checks.base.checks.base.AgentCheck.historate)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For more information, see the [API documentation](https://datadoghq.dev/integrations-core/base/api/#datadog_checks.base.checks.base.AgentCheck.historate).
```

### Service Checks
Service checks are a type of monitor used to track the uptime status of the service. For more information, see the [Service checks](https://docs.datadoghq.com/developers/service_checks/) guide.

> More information on this can be found in the API docs [here.](https://datadoghq.dev/integrations-core/base/api/#datadog_checks.base.checks.base.AgentCheck.service_check)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For more information, see the [API documentation](https://datadoghq.dev/integrations-core/base/api/#datadog_checks.base.checks.base.AgentCheck.service_check).
```

### Events
Events are informational messages about your system that are consumed by [the events stream](https://app.datadoghq.com/event/stream) so that you can build monitors on them.

> More information on this can be found in the API docs [here.](https://datadoghq.dev/integrations-core/base/api/#datadog_checks.base.checks.base.AgentCheck.event)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For more information, see the [API documentation](https://datadoghq.dev/integrations-core/base/api/#datadog_checks.base.checks.base.AgentCheck.event).
```

## Namespacing
Within every integration, you can specify the value of `__NAMESPACE__`:

> ```python

Author: As in an extra blank line on the top and bottom inside the code block?

from datadog_checks.base import AgentCheck

class AwesomeCheck(AgentCheck):
    __NAMESPACE__ = 'awesome'

...
```
This is an optional addition, but it makes submissions easier since it prefixes every metric with the `__NAMESPACE__` automatically. In this case it would append `awesome.` to each metric submitted to Datadog.

> If you wish to ignore the namespace for any reason, you can append optional bool `raw=True` to each submission:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you wish to ignore the namespace for any reason, you can append an optional Boolean `raw=True` to each submission:
```

```python
...

self.gauge('test', 1.23, tags=['foo:bar'], raw=True)

...
```

> We submitted a gauge metric named `awesome.test` with a value of `1.23` tagged by `foo:bar` ignoring the namespace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We submitted a gauge metric named `test` with a value of `1.23` tagged by `foo:bar` ignoring the namespace.
```

> We submitted a gauge metric named `awesome.test` with a value of `1.23` tagged by `foo:bar` ignoring the namespace.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You submitted a gauge metric named `awesome.test` with a value of `1.23` tagged by `foo:bar` ignoring the namespace.
```

## Check Initializations

> In the AgentCheck class, there is a useful property called `check_initializations`, which we use to execute functions that are called once before the first check run.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the AgentCheck class, there is a useful property called `check_initializations`, which you can use to execute functions that are called once before the first check runs.
```

Reviewer: Actually, it's correct as-is. This is referring to the first time a given check executes.

Author: I will word it to be less ambiguous with the word `run`.

> We can fill up `check_initializations` with instructions in `__init__` function of integrations. For example, we could use it to parse configuration information before running a check. Listed below is an example with Airflow:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can fill up `check_initializations` with instructions in the `__init__` function of an integration. For example, you could use it to parse configuration information before running a check. Listed below is an example with Airflow:
```

```python
class AirflowCheck(AgentCheck):
    def __init__(self, name, init_config, instances):
        super(AirflowCheck, self).__init__(name, init_config, instances)

        self._url = self.instance.get('url', '')
        self._tags = self.instance.get('tags', [])

        # The Agent only makes one attempt to instantiate each AgentCheck so any errors occurring

>         # in `__init__` are logged just once, making it difficult to spot. Therefore, we emit

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        # in `__init__` are logged just once, making it difficult to spot. Therefore,
```

>         # potential configuration errors as part of the check run phase.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        # potential configuration errors are emitted as part of the check run phase.
```

sorry about the nit—we don't use "we" as a concept in datadog docs

        # The configuration is only parsed once if it succeed, otherwise it's retried.
        self.check_initializations.append(self._parse_config)

...
```

> Before the first Airflow check is ran, `self._parse_config` will be executed in `base.py`'s `run()` function:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Before the first Airflow check runs, `self._parse_config` will execute in `base.py`'s `run()` function:
```

> Before the first Airflow check is ran, `self._parse_config` will be executed in `base.py`'s `run()` function:
> ```python
> # base.py
> 
>     def run(self):
>         # type: () -> str
>         try:
>             while self.check_initializations:
>                 initialization = self.check_initializations.popleft()
>                 try:
>                     initialization()
>                 except Exception:
>                     self.check_initializations.appendleft(initialization)
>                     raise
>     ...
> 
> ```

Reviewer: I'm not sure this is necessary

```suggestion
```

# Basics

-----

The [AgentCheck base class](https://github.com/DataDog/integrations-core/blob/master/datadog_checks_base/datadog_checks/base/checks/base.py) contains the logic that all Checks inherit.

In addition to the integrations inheriting from AgentCheck, other classes that inherit from AgentCheck include:

- [PDHBaseCheck](https://github.com/DataDog/integrations-core/blob/master/datadog_checks_base/datadog_checks/base/checks/win/winpdh_base.py)
- [OpenMetricsBaseCheck](https://github.com/DataDog/integrations-core/blob/master/datadog_checks_base/datadog_checks/base/checks/openmetrics/base_check.py)
- [KubeLeaderElectionBaseCheck](https://github.com/DataDog/integrations-core/blob/master/datadog_checks_base/datadog_checks/base/checks/kube_leader/base_check.py)

## Getting Started

> -----

Reviewer: Let's remove all of these except for the existing one up top

The Datadog Agent looks for `__version__` and a subclass of `AgentCheck` at the root of every Check package.

Below is an example of the `__init__.py` file for a hypothetical `Awesome` Check:

```python

# (C) Datadog, Inc. 2020-present
# All rights reserved
# Licensed under a 3-clause BSD style license (see LICENSE)
from .__about__ import __version__
from .check import AwesomeCheck

__all__ = ['__version__', 'AwesomeCheck']

```

> Note that Datadog looks for `__version__` in `__about__.py`. This is the default location for all integrations, but it does not necessarily need to be put there. If no `__version__` is found, it will default to `0.0.0`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that the Agent looks for `__version__` in `__init__.py`. This is the default location for all integrations, but it does not necessarily need to be put there. If no `__version__` is found, it will default to `0.0.0`.
```

The version is used in the Agent's status output:

```

=========
Collector
=========

  Running Checks
  ============== 

    AwesomeCheck (0.0.1)
    -------------------
      Instance ID: 1234 [OK]
      Configuration Source: file:/etc/datadog-agent/conf.d/awesomecheck.d/awesomecheck.yaml
      Total Runs: 12
      Metric Samples: Last Run: 242, Total: 2,904
      Events: Last Run: 0, Total: 0
      Service Checks: Last Run: 0, Total: 0
      Average Execution Time : 49ms
      Last Execution Date : 2020-10-26 19:09:22.000000 UTC
      Last Successful Execution Date : 2020-10-26 19:09:22.000000 UTC

...

```

## Checks

-----

AgentCheck contains functions that you use to execute Checks and submit data to Datadog.

> ### Metrics

Reviewer: Let's put a blank line after each header
